feat [IDP-1984] :  Added the initial docs for Custom Plugins (#4946)
harness/developer-hub: docs/internal-developer-portal/plugins/custom-plugins/add-a-custom-plugin.md

---
title: Add custom plugins in IDP
description: Learn about the steps to add your custom plugin in IDP.
sidebar_position: 2
---

:::info

> This Feature is in **BETA** phase and is behind a Feature Flag. It's only enabled on few accounts on request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Feature is in **BETA** phase and is behind <name_of_flag> Feature Flag. Please contact the IDP product team if you would like to try out Custom Plugins.
```

    - **Plugin applies to entity** : Add the software componenets to which your plugin applies to usually it's **Service**. 
    - **Add Plugin Screenshots (optional)** : Not available yet
    - **Additional fields** : Fill it as shown in the image below. 
    ![](./static/additional-fields.png)

![](./static/plugin-metadata.png)

## Layout

6. Now click next and Add **Layout** for your plugin. You have 3 categories in this and the layout is sourced from `packages/app/src/components/Catalog/EntityPage.tsx`. Below are the examples.

![](./static//layout.png)

- **Card**: Here's an [example](https://github.com/harness/backstage-plugins/blob/cd70f9c03ed52917d8f409c2ceb7b7fc874c97de/packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx#L192) `EntityLinksCard` of Links card on **Overview** page.

![](./static/links-card.png)

- **Tab**: Here's an [example](https://github.com/harness/backstage-plugins/blob/cd70f9c03ed52917d8f409c2ceb7b7fc874c97de/packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx#L87) `EntityHarnessCiCdContent` of Harness CI/CD tab. 

![](./static/ci-cd-tab.png)

> - **Menu Item in SideNav**: Here's an example of TODO plugin in side nav. 

Reviewer 2: Conditional as well.

![](./static/to-do-plugin.png)

## Configurations

7. Now Click Next and go to the Configurations Page by default configuration is disabled.

8. If your plugin doesn't require any configuration settings like **Proxy** or authentication for **API** you can go ahead and enable the plugin directly. 

9. If you require `app-config.yaml` for your plugin, then **enable configuration**. 

10. Now add the proxy part here, as given below in the example,

```YAML
proxy:
  /mynewplugin:
    target: https://somerandomapi.com/api/v2
    pathRewrite:

>       /api/proxy/dynatrace/?: /

Reviewer: This doesn't look right

Author: Aah missed it will remove dynatrace from there
